hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language what we're going to do in this
live class is we're gonna focus on IELTS
reading this is both for general and
academic we're going to focus on a
specific task called sentence completion
if you haven't seen the other IELTS
reading videos we've done and you're on
YouTube right now click up here or up
here I forget where it is but there's a
lots of other ones or if you just want
to go to the platform e to language comm
there's lots and lots of practice
materials for you to do because it's one
thing to learn the methods and it's
another thing entirely to actually
practice and if you want to crack this
test and get a 7 7.5 or an 8 you need to
practice the other thing is if you're on
YouTube right now click the subscribe
button down there rock and roll so this
is task type at number 8 sentence
completion let me explain this task to
you this is kind of what it will look
like on test day right of course you're
going to have this separate reading
textbook here but what you're going to
have here are a set of instructions
you're going to have the questions you
can see its sentence completion because
there is a big gap at the end of the
sentence or the sentence may have a gap
in the middle of the sentence you need
to complete it quite simply first thing
you should do is read the instructions
because it tells you how many words
and/or numbers you can use and it says
choose no more than two words from the
text so you're not creating any words
you're taking words directly from the
text and inserting them into those gaps
right but this says two words so we
could have one word like car or you
could have two words like red car you
cannot have three you cannot use a
number I'll talk about numbers in a
second
so you can see the question here vonapp
Frisch discovered the difference but
dance types by changing the position of
the something-or-other just let me
change the color of my pin here just
bear with me I didn't think it was black
red Red's nice so what you need to do is
you need to identify a keyword in the
question right different dance types
something like that then what you're
going to do is you're going to scan read
the text and you're going to find that
keyword in the text right wherever it is
then you're going to read very carefully
and you're going to think very
critically about what word or words will
fit in here there's a few clues that you
can get it get from here for example the
article though which means what type of
word can possibly fit in this gap here
though it has to be and now or it could
also be a plural noun
could be noun or nouns same thing here
in fact all of these are going to ask
you for a noun so this information you
can gather from the question as to which
word or type of word that you can
actually select for the gap but the key
thing is to keep that keyword or
keywords in your mind while you read how
you do this or the analogy that you
should think about is like this you've
lost your phone okay you've lost your
phone you're in your house you have to
go to work you think ah where's my phone
where's my phone where's my phone
where's my phone where's my phone you go
into your bedroom where's my phone
where's my phone you're looking under
the clothes you're looking me in the
computer where's my phone where's my
phone it's the same thing here in when
you're searching for keywords you're
keeping the keywords like difference
between dance types difference between
dance times difference between dance
types and you're looking in here for
those keywords difference between dancer
ah there it is okay I think I've found
it then you read more specifically
okay so that's how you read here okay
this is now the answer sheet will work
so remember you can write one or two
words so here's one with two words
here's one with one word be very careful
about grammar it may have to be a plural
noun for example here's thirty seconds
two words you cannot write 30 seconds
with a number remember it said no
numbers it just said two words
so sometimes IELTS will trick you like
that rock and roll let's do it I'm only
gonna give you three questions it'll
take you three minutes I want you to try
very hard let's do the first one it's
only question one please do question one
you have 60 seconds to answer question
one woopsie there you go no no no no no
no no let's start again 60 seconds
starts now
you
okay cool let's continue on
let's do question two and question three
you have two minutes starting now
you
okay let's go through the answers here
so number one Ron Frisch discovered the
difference between dance types by
changing the position of the what okay
this is a difficult question because
you're like what's the context what are
you talking about
this is out of context this is because
it what happens in the IELTS right
you'll have one passage of text and
it'll make sense from the beginning it's
like a big story about dancing bees or
whatever and the first part of the
passage will have some multiple-choice
questions associated with it and the
second part of the passage will have
some true false not given and the third
part will have some sentence completion
so we're sort of down at the third part
of the text and this is why it feels
like it's a little bit confusing but
let's push on because we can still do
this nevertheless so difference between
dance types in the text it says on a
hunch he started gradually moving the
feeding dish further and further away
and noticed as he did so that the
dancers of the returning Scout bees also
started changing von Frisch discovered
the difference between dance types by
changing the position of the what well
what are the key words here we have
actually this is a key word here is
position because here we have moving
changing the position or gradually
moving and we have our keyword there
which is feeding dish for number one
very good if you got feeding dish you
are officially an IELTS legend number
two the debt outside the hive points in
the direction of the white well the text
says and depending on where they danced
let's read the question again the dance
outside the hive points in the direction
of the what and depending on where they
danced the straight portion of the
waggle dance would point in different
directions the outside dance was fairly
easy to decode the straight portion of
the dance pointed directly to the
food sauce so the bees would merely have
to decode the distance message and fly
off in that direction to find their food
the dance outside the hive point in the
direction of the food or food source
both are correct number three the angle
of the dance from the vertical shows the
angle of the food from what this is a
crazy question the angle of the dance
from the vertical shows the angle of the
food from the something where no we're
looking for a noun let's just read the
passage when inside the hive the dancer
cannot use the Sun so she uses gravity
instead the direction of the Sun is
represented by the top of the hive wall
if she runs straight up this means that
the feeding place is in the same
direction as the Sun however if for
example the feeding place is 40 degrees
to the left of the Sun then the dancer
would run 40 degrees to the left of the
vertical line number three the angle of
the dance from the vertical shows the
angle of the food from the what
hopefully you have the word s UN Sun is
the answer there so on your answer sheet
you should have feeding dish food or
food source and the word Sun how many
did you get pop them into the chat did
you do brilliantly or are you in need of
some serious help if you're struggling
with your IELTS test in any which way I
want you to go to this website here got
a WWE two language dot-com you can sign
up for free there's lots of practice
materials if you're feeling like you
really need additional help you can
upgrade your account you can take
tutorials with X IELTS examiner's you
can get feedback on your writing there
is heaps more practice materials
including mock tests there's lots and
lots and lots here including lots of
methods by the way all of the methods in
one place overview lessons you name it
we've got it so if you do need some help
you know where to
you can stop studying from books for the
IELTS which would be cool I won't say
any more than that if you're on YouTube
click the subscribe button down there
otherwise I'll see you guys soon